Imagine this. You're asked to
participate in a panel discussion and
the moderator asks you a question and
all of a sudden your mind goes blank.
You can't think of the answer and then
you start to internally panic and you
look out at the audience and you wonder
what they must be thinking about the
fact that you're not saying anything.
Has this ever happened to you? Or maybe
you've never sat on a panel, but this
very idea is one of the reasons why you
don't do that because you panic about
the concept of freezing in front of a
group of people.
It's okay. The first thing to know is
that silence is actually all right
because while you may be internally
freaking out, the audience isn't. In
fact, some of the best professionals and
the most impactful thought leaders are
the types of individuals who do take a
few moments before they respond and they
think through the question and then they
deliver an answer. In this video, I am
going to give you a couple of mental
frameworks which should help you if you
are ever in the situation of being on a
panel. I promise you by the end of this
video you will be able to participate
confidently in any panel discussion you
are invited to. If you are asked to be
on a panel discussion there is a
four-letter acronym that I want you to
remember. Prep. P R E P. This stands for
point, reason, example, and then point.
To give you an example of this, if I
were asked a question about what makes a
great office culture, my response could
be, I think that a great office culture
is shaped by intentional leadership. And
the reason for that is that culture goes
beyond simply a motto that's written on
a poster that hangs on the wall. It is
shaped by the daily activities that the
leader sets forth. As an example, I have
the chance to work with some great ReMax
broker owners throughout Western Canada.
And some of these individuals are
running weekly meetings. They offer
additional training. They have social
events on Friday afternoons. And every
one of those agents wants to come into
the office and be part of that because
they get a certain energy being part of
that culture. And the reason for this is
that the leaders are intentional. They
make a purpose of showcasing great
leadership and great office culture.
That was my response. And if we break
down the different segments, I started
off with the P the point and that is
office culture is shaped by intentional
leadership. Then the reason for that is
that it goes beyond a motto written on a
poster and it has to do with the
examples set by the leaders on a daily
basis. And then I gave an example for my
own personal career working with ReMax
Canada and having the opportunity to
work with a lot of broker owners and see
what great leadership looks like and
pointing out some of the things they do
well which brought me back to that
original point that it's all about
intentional leadership. So, if you can
remember that prep acronym, that is
going to help give you a framework so
that any question you get, you're able
to dive in to details. Not just give a
direct answer, but give an example. And
why is an example important? We as
humans, we gravitate towards stories or
actual
tangible things that we can think of
which can help us envision how we can
apply it to our own lives. So it's not
enough to just give your answer with the
reason why you're giving your answer.
Really aim to find a real life example
that you can implement as part of your
response. There is a mental framework
that is going to help you if you are
ever asked to be part of a panel
conversation or this could even work if
you're invited to be on a podcast,
especially if you're given a question
that is very difficult or something that
even feels a little bit like a trap,
like whatever answer you provide might
not put you in the best light. What you
want to remember is acknowledge,
transition, and deliver. As an example,
pretend you are a financial advisor and
you are asked, "How do you think current
government economic policies are
impacting investors?"
That question might seem a little bit
like a trap in that you don't want to go
too far maybe injecting your own
political beliefs knowing that your
audience is going to have a wide range
of different independent thoughts on how
the government is handling the current
economic climate. You can still answer
and provide value in a way that sets you
up for success. How you do this using
acknowledge transition deliver is you
could respond by saying
there are certainly a lot of opinions on
how the government is handling this
economic situation. What I like to focus
on are strategies that are going to work
under any form of government because
sure this government is in power right
now but that could change at the next
election. So, what I like to advise my
clients on are things like
diversification,
risk management, long-term strategy in
investments that have a track record of
proven success. And that way, the best
investors aren't getting caught up on
the short-term policies. They're looking
at it with a much longer lens. And I
think that this is a strategy that many
people could deploy. There you go.
You've still provided value. you've
still answered the question, but you
didn't get trapped in injecting your own
opinion on how the current government is
handling the situation. So, this is one
way I just use the government example as
one example. Maybe you're somebody who
does want to answer that directly. And
all the power to you, that's fine. But
if you ever get in a situation where you
want to be a bit careful with how you
answer, you want to remember,
acknowledge, deliver, and transition.
One thing that very few people think
about when they're participating on a
panel is what they're doing when they
are not being asked a question. Cuz if
you're part of a panel, there's at least
going to be one other participant or
panelist. There might even be multiple
panelists. And the amount of speaking
time you have may only be 20 or 33%
of that entire session.
What you're doing when you're not
answering a question is important and
can actually impact how people perceive
you in terms of an expert on stage. Some
suggestions are first and foremost of
course to be paying attention to every
question that's asked even if it's not
asked of you directly because sometimes
moderators will suddenly add in Wade
what do you think about what Susie just
answered and if I'm all of a sudden
caught off guard and I wasn't listening
carefully to Suz's answer that's not
going to look great. Also, there may be
opportunities for you to jump in. If
Susie touched on something that maybe
you have a little bit of a different
viewpoint on or something you want to
double down and agree on with what Susie
said, you can always request to jump in
with the moderator or add an additional
thought and now you're adding even more
value to the panel. Beyond this, you
want to ensure that you have eye contact
with the moderator. When you're speaking
to the audience, have that eye contact
and try to keep a smile on your face. A
lot of people don't realize, but they're
very serious when they're on panels and
they just have this grumpy resting face
about them, but still smile, still make
people feel like it's an enjoyable
session. You can still add humor. You
can do all of the things that you would
do in a regular speech and inject those
things as part of the panel discussion,
but it's important to remember that even
when you're not answering the question,
everyone is still looking your way. And
so, you want to be paying attention,
focused throughout the entire session. I
hope these tips on mental frameworks and
concepts of how to handle a panel
conversation have been beneficial to
you. If they have, please consider
subscribing to my channel and check out
this deeper dive video which goes
further in depth of how you can be a
great panelist.